(upbeat music)
All right let's talk about the last one
which is booleans or boo leans as I always say
the joke of, what diet did the ghost go on? Boolean.
A boolean is true or false, it's like a light switch.
It's either on or off and that's it at the end of the day.
We use booleans for logic such as if statements.
They can be manually set or calculated.
So let's take a look at here.
So we'll say const or probably better as a let.
Is drawing is equal to false.
So I've done this many times, you're working on a
application where you wanna know if the user
is moving their mouse
and if they're currently click down or up.
And to do that we have what's called a flag variable.
A variable that is set to either true or false,
and when they click down we set it to true.
And when they click up we set it to false.
And that's what a boolean is,
it's something that is either true or false.
We can also sort of calculate booleans.
So if we have an age variable here that's set to 18,
and we can make a const of age variable.
And we don't set that to true or false,
we set that to age is greater than 19.
And then we console log age.
This is giving me grief, why is it red?
Identifier age has already been declared.
Oh I forgot to comment out some of this stuff, that's why.
Here we go, now you refresh you see, well not 18
you want to see of age and that will return false.
So sometimes the values are calculated
like this age is greater than 19, we're gonna talk
about what all these different operators are,
greater than, greater than and equal, less than, equal to.
Right now we're just gonna focus on what is equality,
the equal sign, the double equals
and the triple equals sign in JavaScript.
So the first one which is one equals obviously it's
just first setting a value.
If I change that to a let
and I want to update a variable, I simply just say
age is equal to 100 and obviously age will be set to 100.
So one equal sign is used for updating
or setting a variable.
Now we have equals equals and double equals.
Before we get into the differences
between double equals and triple equals,
know that almost always you should use triple equals
and double equals is almost always a bad practice.
It's sort of just like something to keep in your head.
And I say almost always 'cause there are some edge cases,
but triple equals is generally what you should be using.
So if I take this age variable here,
and I say, "age is triple equals to 100",
I'm gonna get true.
If I use something like that, like ten,
it's gonna give me false.
So that's what I mean in that booleans
can be calculated as well.
Where you have one value and that value
can be a straight up value,
or it can a value that is stored in a variable.
Like age is equal to 100, it can be two variables.
So let's make another one let age two
is equal to 100 as well.
Age is equal to age two, so what that does
is it checks the value of the first variable
and it checks the value of the second variable
and it makes sure that the values are exactly the same.
Now, what's the difference between that
and if I were to use a double equals?
Let's just use straight up values so we don't
even have to think about variables here.
10 triple equals 10, that's true.
10 double equals 10, well that is also true.
So like why are there two different ways to do it?
Well the difference is, is that triple equals
will check that the value of the thing on the left hand side
and the value of the thing
on the right hand side are the same.
And check that the type of the thing on the left
and the right are the same.
So tripe equals will always
check for both value and type.
Now you tell me what is the type of this one?
Number, what is the type of this one?
It's also a number.
What is the value?
10, what is the value of 10?
So if I were to do something like this,
10 a string of 10 is equal to a number of ten.
It actually tells me that that is true, why?
Because the value is the same, but the types are not.
So if I triple equals 10 is equal to 10,
then it's gonna tell me that it's false.
So this area right here, remember we talked about
how you can get in hot water by mixing strings and numbers
when you're doing addition,
because they're not the same type.
You should almost always be working with the same type.
The same thing is true here where you can sometimes
get yourself into hot water when you are checking
if a string and a number are the exact same thing.
So again real quick, triple equals will always check
that the value and the type is exactly the same.
Last thing I wanna say is that in a future video
we have a huge one on what's called flow control.
Things like if statements and ternary and switch statements.
And like basically you wanna add
a lot of logic to your program.
And that's when we're gonna be using flow control.
And these booleans are gonna be particularly helpful,
and we're gonna be extending this sort of true or false
a little bit further into things
like truthy and falsy values,
you may have heard of that before.
This thing called coercion where if you have a value
and you wanna force it into a true boolean and what not.
So stay tuned for that, I think that's going to
really give you a lot of aha moments with JavaScript.